This document is the current state of the manifesto of Armenian Accelerationism, also known as arm/acc or 🇦🇲/acc.

A movement inspired by communities like Effective Accelerationism, Silicon Valley, TPOT, and a few others, with notable implicit and explicit leaders such as Beff Jezos (or Guillaume Verdon), Elon Musk, Garry Tan, and many others.

The overarching goal of arm/acc is improving the Republic of Armenia (or just Armenia), as well as the lives of Armenians outside of it, wherever they are in our huge and spread out diaspora.

Our definition of Armenian is similar to how most Americans define what being an American is. We’re a community, a movement fueled with a simple, yet effective ideology. We think what makes you Armenian is what you think and what you do, not necessarily who gave birth to you or where. Writing this out, I realize that this idea first came to me, when my high-school friend Arman went on a long monologue in one of our slightly drunk pub hangouts in Yerevan, after 1 or 2 jugs of beer, either on his own or in the heat of a passionate debate about life, politics, Armenia and the world, he would say this one thing. He’d say that we are the true Armenians, and many of the people around us in our own capital should not have the honor of carrying the name. He called me, the teenager, who’s raging against his family, his country and his religion, a true Armenian, because I cared… 

I will update this document with thoughts after talking to him once again after a long break, but my current interpretation is that, being Armenian is a CHOICE, in geopolitically complicated and mentally tiring times like this, where existential risk is all over us, and where being hopeful takes deliberate effort, all we can do is believe, share our bright / positive beliefs with our comrades, and build towards a brighter future.

Armenian Accelerationism invites everyone to join us explicitly as a community member on X, or implicitly by doing things that are aligned with our goals, regardless of your location, ethnicity, nationality, gender, and political stances. Of course, we hope that citizens of the Republic of Armenia, as well as diasporan Armenians will be our early-adopters, but we still stand by our definition of an Armenian.

We are radically, delusionally optimistic about the future of Armenia as a state, as well as a community. We see Armenia slowly becoming a major technological hub, and one of our goals is accelerating this. We see efforts from different parties to improve education in Armenia, one of the most notable examples of which is the Generation AI project by FAST Foundation, and the second goal of our’s is accelerating this education. We see a lot of interest, as well as activity in the startup scene of Armenia, and we deeply believe that this is the key to drastically improving the economy, as it’s one of the few ways to generate large amounts of capital seemingly from thin air. We agree that the human capital of Armenia is its most valuable export, and we believe that it should become its most valuable asset for internal development also. There’s a lot of value in studying and working abroad for both the individual and the country, but the value is lost for the country, when the individual decides to leave it, as the country didn’t allow them to flourish. We believe that there’s a lot of work to be done to align the incentives of the country with the members of the community, especially its most passionate, most hard-working, most influential and successful members. We strongly prefer meritocracy over bureaucracy, and see the opposite of this mindset prevailing as one of the major reasons behind large amounts of talent leaving the country for better opportunities abroad.

To try and summarize all of this, we believe that Armenian Accelerationism is a hyperstitious idea that should spread in the Armenian community, as it's good for all of us as individuals, as well as the cities, states, country and the diaspora as larger entities. We want to inspire every Armenian, no matter the age, with a special focus on the younger generation, to build. To believe in themselves and their national identity and use this passion to fuel their execution to build a brighter future for all of us. 

If you want to join the movement, here’s the community on X.

If you want to show your affiliation with us, you can put arm/acc or 🇦🇲/acc in your X name or bio, pin the community in the highlighted area under your description, tell people about it in your preferred digital or IRL way.

If you want to support us, follow us on the social media that you use. We currently have our main presence on X, some activity on LinkedIn, and our old community in Discord. If any of you want to support us in an alternative way, e.g. with funding, expertise, connections, please reach out to us <here> or <here>, but to be completely clear, our current goals don’t involve any funding, so it’s not necessary, at least not yet. 

We’re tired of the feeling of upcoming doom, demotivation and general negativity spreading through our community. We believe that every Armenian should be able to call themselves Armenian, and feel a strong sense of pride washing over them, as they pronounce it.

We are also not affiliated with any organization, be it religious, or political, or private, we’re our own movement spread by our original founders, and whoever believes in it enough to join the effort. It’s decentralized, and as open as we can make it.

Join us, let’s build a better Armenia together.
